# "`#!`" -- "First of First" of Your Shellscript

You know, "`#!`" is called "shebang," which we always write at the head of your script. First of all, we have to tell you about this.

## Can I Use "`#!/bin/sh`"?

Our answer is actually, "Yes." However, strictly speaking, the answer is UNDEFINED.

[The man-page of POSIX sh](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/sh.html) has [the following explanation](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/sh.html#tag_20_117_16):

> Applications should note that the standard PATH to the shell cannot be assumed to be either **/bin/sh** or **/usr/bin/sh**, and should be determined by interrogation of the PATH returned by getconf PATH, ensuring that the returned pathname is an absolute pathname and not a shell built-in.

In other words, POSIX says that POSIX-compliant OSes don't have to put the sh command in /bin. If you comply with the explanation, you can't use the phrase "`#!/bin/sh`" at the head of shellscripts. In the case that you don't use the phrase, the shellscript is executed by the current shell itself, which you have used to execute the script. Therefore, if you are using "csh" or C-Shell, the shellscript is tried to executed by csh, and it would probably fail if your shellscript is for Bourne Shell.

Otherwise, we have to execute the getconf command in advance on a shellscript, which can run on all shells. Then, have to rewrite all paths of shebangs on all your shellscripts dynamically or manually. But that is unrealistic. Moreover, you can find a few pages having the "`#!/bin/sh`," which assumes the path of the sh command is "/bin," on the POSIX document — these conflicts with the explanations.

These are the reasons why we say yes.

## What Should I Write at The Top of Shellscripts?

It is very important for shellscripts that want high compatibility to behave equally no matter what status of the OS which the script is deployed has. To make such a shellscript, we recommend that you should always write the following code at the top of your shellscript.

```sh
#!/bin/sh

set -u
umask 0022
export LC_ALL=C
type command >/dev/null 2>&1 &&
type getconf >/dev/null 2>&1 &&
export PATH="$(command -p getconf PATH)${PATH+:}${PATH-}"
export UNIX_STD=2003
```

I'll explain them one by one.

### 1) "`#!/bin/sh`" (shebang)

See [the above section](#can-we-use-binsh).

### 2) "`set -u`"

"set" command sets the following arguments to the shell as options. And, "-u" is the option to abort the shellscript when the script tries to read a variable having no value. It is useful for finding out misspelled variables. However, there are some points to be aware of the option. See ["`$*`/`$@`" variable section](-2440.md) and ["reading a undefined variable" section](variables.md#reading-a-undefined-variable).

### 3) "`umask 0022`"

"umask" command is to define the default file permission when the shell creates a file or directory. And "0022" is the typical value for general shellscripts. So, please initialize the setting with this command.

### 4) "`export LC_ALL=C`"

The environment variable "LC_ALL" is to define the locale, which most commands refer the value to decide their behavior. And, "C" is the default locale, which all OSes in all region support, it means the most compatible locale. So, it would also be better if you initialize the setting with this variable.

### 5) Two "type" Commands And "PATH" Variable

"PATH" is one of the most important environment variables. If you don't initialize this before executing a command, you can't expect which one of commands having the same name but in different paths would execute. The last line of the three is to make shell refer to the POSIX-compliant paths preferentially. And, the former two lines are to make sure that the commands required by the last line exist in the environment.

Notably, these lines are significant for shellscripts, which likely to run on Solaris because the default paths on Solaris, such as "/bin," "/usr/bin," have many POSIX-incompliant commands. And, these three could overwrite the setting.

### 6) "`export UNIX_STD=2003`"

This environment variable is to make HP-UX compatible with POSIX. The commands in HP-UX behave compliantly with POSIX when this variable exists, and it has this value.

